And something we haven't. Hold on, let me hit record.
Good catch.
Okay, we're going to summarize the mattress interview together. So imagine that we just finished the interview.
We were partners with Bob Mesta, were his team, and now something that we haven't spoken about yet.
Is very, very important. Maybe the most important part of the JTPD process, which is the de.
So every time you do an interview, it can be it can range from 20 to 30 min in interview.
10 to 15 min directly after that should always be booked out. For you and your companion, whoever was helping you with the interview or more team members if you'd like like right now to discuss and that is where you plot the forces and you plot the timeline.
We're gonna specifically talk about forces today because the timeline is a little bit more intuitive for plotting.
But when you guys go and do your interviews, we're going to require that in either the first or second interview you have one of our team members with you.
8, Verona and Sophie are all going to be available. So they will do the D group with you for that interview or more if you'd like.
So today we're going to do the debrief for the mattress interview. As if we just perform the interview and we're talking about it now.
So what that looks like is you take a piece of paper, hopefully you can write if you're on Zoom, we can just talk about it.
Maybe someone could be a scribe on Google Docs. We're not going to write it down here, but if you were going to be doing it for real for your interview, that's what you would do.
Always have the diagrams up so that you can be following along. With what they each mean, it's hard to.
Kind of keep them in your mind if you don't see the arrows. And we're just gonna go through each of the 4.
Sorry.
So we'll start with push. Remember push is the pain pushes something pushing you toward the solution to make it better.
It doesn't have to be physical pain, it can just be something that is. Hurting in his life.
So with our main interviewee does anyone remember his name or the name that Bob gives him in the interview?
Oh.
Hey, some of us are bad with names.
I don't remember them saying the name, but. Yeah.
Yeah, Neon knows it.
Cause you've met him in real life. Yeah, Brian. Cause you met him in real life.
Brian. So, so yeah, so this is a fun story. Sorry, I was getting set up over here, but, It was a quick side note.
I usually when Bob comes into, he come, he'd come into Chicago from Detroit last year when I was still living in Chicago.
He came in the town and he ended up staying with me and my place and. He has a steak restaurant he likes to go to.
And I said, no, I'm gonna take you to my spot. So by the way, if any of you all go to Chicago, let me know.
We can hook it up. That being said, I took him to my spot. So we're at my spot at this takes spot.
And we're sitting there and he looks over and he goes, oh my god, I can't believe it.
And we see the person. That he interviewed for the mattress interview sitting across from us in the restaurant and Bob hadn't seen him in like 6 or 7 years.
So it was like the craziest thing last year for me to see literally the mattress interview guy that I've been teaching for 10 years.
Across from me and then he ended up joining us for dinner. So it was a whole like situation and I loved it.
So just a fun little side story about it being even more real. But they were they were in Chicago and the interview was done at base camp.
We look well rested, Meal.
He is in a he was like He looked great and I just couldn't believe how effusive he was both towards Bob and in general.
I don't think
He's actually in the startup community in Chicago. Now he's an entrepreneur. So I guess that's how you heard about the workshop in the first place.
Yeah.
That's awesome. I love that story. Okay, so Brian is his name. So Brian was facing certain problems.
Let's talk about it. You guys can just unmute or raise your hand if you're more comfortable.
What are the pushes, the push forces that Brian was facing in his life.
Was working very hard. And, He needed more, quality of sleep. Okay.
Yeah. He was tired.
Yeah.
Good.
And back.
Okay. Back pain. Okay, Mark says he's tired and he has back paint Marcel and then Arthur.
Yes, aside from the physical pain, he just was cranky all the time. He didn't feel like he was a good dad or wasn't really using his time, he was just so
So we had mood problems, emotional problems, family, he wasn't living up to like what he wanted to be for his family.
Are you?
I mean, when it said, everyone said exactly what I was gonna say, but essentially like it sounds like to me, he was getting better sleep when he was on the road and when he comes back home it was a combination of family and then also that that mattress as well that was Compromising his, balance of emotions.
Yes, so the juxtaposition of he knows it's not like a sleeping problem because he gets great sleep when he's not there.
So that's like really important. The push was actually probably toward the matches only because he knew he gets good sleep elsewhere.
That's a really good point. I haven't heard someone bring at that point before actually. I like that.
Nelson?
I'm curious if time counts as being a push because you know he's been thinking about the problem for you know anywhere from 6 to months to a year and it was clearly annoying.
Good.
Yeah, that's interesting. Usually time is a push when it's like the straw that breaks the camels back.
It's like, all right, I've waited too long now, right? It's like You've waited all this time and it just gets worse and worse and that's what makes it the push.
I totally agree. Antonio?
So he was aware that his mattress was deformed and so you had to go through the pain of, you know, try different positions like on the box spring on the floor like it's tried a lot of creative solution to make it better.
Yeah, so he tried doing a bunch of things and none of them work. So the frustration with that maybe like that was extra work and mental load and it's like I don't want to think about this anymore.
Totally agree. Let's see, Ali.
Oh, it's a, yeah, I think it was mentioned previously, but essentially it's generating tension in his life like tension that leads to moments that are not related at all with sleep but is generating conflict like with the wife and He mentioned the personal conflict, but he didn't mention if it was also affecting him at work, but could.
Carry over.
Yeah, so, social. I'm hearing a lot. Remember there are functional problems, emotional problems, social problem.
That I'm hearing, he also had social issues, so he's not getting along with his wife, his children and other people at work, perhaps.
Matthew?
And I was thinking maybe it was frustrated about this expensive $2,000 mattress from his ankle.
Is Hong Kong and was kind of almost forced to buy this and thinking that He was maybe, attracted to buying a cheaper mattress from Close quotes or anonymous supplier.
To offset the frustration of this expensive. My trust forced into him by his uncle.
It's exactly, yeah. So he has this budget version that he kinda got. Kind of tricked into he's not super happy with it.
So he's kind of angry about that. Or frustrated with that. And then that is actually going to come into play with some of the other forces too.
So there are some other things lying in that. Uncle part.
Yeah, I think a little bit of what Matthew just said, the buyers are more side, but also in combination with what somebody said about having to measure the dip in his mattress.
He's not getting the support he needs from The folks who sold it to him as well, so it's like You know, the worst of both worlds, like you've got like a lemon of a mattress.
Exactly. Nelson, did you have another?
Yeah, what was my other one? Just there. It'll come back to me.
Sorry.
Okay, feel free to throw it in the chat. So all of you are exactly right. So those are a bunch of pushes.
Push was pretty much the easiest one for this because we're dealing with something that is physical.
So you can physically see. I saw I think it was Bob also put in the chat, physical arm and back pain.
Lisa, we're gonna come back to your comment in the chat and in a second. So we have that physical pain that's more functional.
We have the emotional pain. He's grouchy. He's not being a good dad.
And then we have social. He's literally fighting with the people in his life and not getting along with them because of this.
For the poll. Remember poll is an attraction. And aure to being a better person to something that you want it's almost like you see this carrot in the distance that you're yearning for.
Can anyone think of polls toward having a new mattress? This new life. Yeah, Bob.
I mean, it's one of those. Instinctive desires of like good sleep there's nothing like Hitting the bed after like a long day of work where you're actually tired and looking forward to waking up well rested.
Yes.
Like and then, you know, seeing the solution, you know, at Costco like you. Kind of project yourself into that reality at least for a moment.
I completely agree. So the thought you even said like looking forward to a good night's sleep that is so attractive it's like I I really am looking forward to getting into bed and just like for it to feel great.
David?
Yeah, 2 polls that I remember was the convenience of the group on coupon for the mattress and so even when he was in this uncertainty, there was that like, hey, I can always just tap a button and have it delivered.
As well as another pull was the support he received from his wife, I think in his store when when he actually was considering buying it to that pull of like Hey, I kind of have alignment with the other person using this bed.
Was another sense of pull for the new solution.
That is, absolutely right. So one, there was a coupon deal. That's it.
That's a pull. Okay, less money. That makes me very enticed by this, but the a huge pull was my wife has the go ahead on this. That makes me very enticed by this, but the, oh, huge pull was my wife has the go ahead on this.
She was there with That's her just being there and able to see it is already a pull and then her giving the go ahead and he had her full support is a humongous pull in this in this story.
Antonio?
So kind of to add to, you know, wanting to have a better sleep, he had the proof actually when he traveled, and was staying at hotels.
The masters was confident he was having a really good sleep. So really the drive I want I want that I know what it feels to have a good sleep and I want that
Yeah, I love the way you frame that. So that's kind of going along with Bob where it's like.
Not only do I just want a good night to sleep, I know what it feels like. And I'm chasing getting back to that.
It's kind of like if we've ever hit like flow in productivity, we're kind of like chasing that every time that we're not in that at work.
Kevin?
Yeah. His pull, one of the main polls I felt was his, the guarantee policy that actually Costco has with the returns.
He was very worried that if you were to purchase with a group on the mattress online, the hassle that it was going to be to actually get the mattress back.
And one of the things that with Costco was that he had purchased products there before he kind of knew what the return policy was.
It was easy and I think they even talked about where Costco is gonna actually pick up the mattress at his house.
So that whole convenience factor and knowing that he could return it, he could test it out, try it, and then that would be there.
That those are exactly right. So that Teachers of buying at Costco. There's a reason that the poll is directly opposite the anxieties.
So every anxiety he could have had for that the poll is now replacing those and it was stronger so he may have been afraid, oh, what if I waste the money?
Nope, you can return it. Even like bringing it right out to the car and being able to touch it all of those things that you're talking about.
They're outweighing the anxieties he may have had. So extremely correct. Okay.
I was gonna actually said the same thing my co-founder said, but I'm thinking about one more thing about the wife.
They had, they were able to touch it. And the white touch that so it's almost like okay I'm good to go like my wife actually touched it she liked it So it was like to me it was a big pool that she got no, yeah, not only the approval of the wife, but like.
She actually could feel it.
So sure. So again, that's like the opposite of the anxiety. So it's it's comforting every single thing he could be worried about and it's mitigating all of that fear.
We're not, Okay. No.
Are they? Oh, Christy, yeah, go ahead.
I was just add, oh, just let that note. It's like, you know, I think one of these things is like a happier wife is a happier life.
Yeah.
How are they agree? I think Richelle put happier family life in the chat, same thing. Are they?
Yeah, to relate what, to, rely, well, to piggyback on what was just said, To me, I think I know we're talking we already talked about the push but the push it was almost a push Regarding the wife, right?
The wife had a place to her pain was that like I need a happier husband so like I'm at this breaking point we're like okay fine let's get another mattress right so yeah happier life for them right and then it was just a validation for for the husband like okay I got that she's now validating now that we can get a new bed it's more of a push.
I don't know, but like identifying the push with the wife as well, would help validate, the, I can't Brian's, purchase for, So.
Yeah. I've never thought about it like that. Viewing the forces diagram from the wife's perspective, but that's so true.
Nelson?
I've got 2. I was thinking the online research that he did in advance sort of like allowed him to go into the store primes to buy it like when he saw it, cause he felt comfortable with the information already.
Yeah.
And, the other thing that he mentioned was that the box was small. And like even though it was too big for his cart and he went back and had to get a flatbed like I think he was excited that he could fit it in his car and just like take home so that made it easier to impulse by.
So, so convenience. Convenience is a huge pull. Pretty much every time you buy something conveniently, that is a pull force.
And what I'm hearing you say, Neil, can you go to slide? Like the timeline side right before this.
Yeah, so what I'm hearing you say Nelson is when he gets to that buying point, right after deciding there are so many little parts that led up to him saying yes and swiping the credit card in that instant.
It's like one of the most mind-blowing things I learned when I was learning jobs to be done is that every single purchase that we make, even a pack of gum in the checkout lane at the grocery store has a multitude of little moments that lead up to that.
If those little moments didn't happen, we would not have purchased it. So there's no such thing as an impulse buy.
All of these things led up to it. So like you said, he saw the papers beforehand. He had been thinking about it for a very long time.
He knew of his wife said yes, he would be very interested in whatever manages it was, all of those things, all those experiences led into this.
So keep that in mind when you're plotting the timeline as well. We can go back to the forces now.
Jeremy.
Yeah, everybody. I mean, everybody, on the top, but I like how you frame it with the opposite of anxiety.
It almost diffuse the situation to the point where He was the only one standing in the way of his happiness because all of his concerns and Like what if we're if used.
So it put the onus on him to make that final step to make the purchase.
A hundred percent. Christy.
You're on mute, Christie.
No, I want to get back to the endorsement from the wife like. There are times when.
You're making this decision and somehow someone kind of vouches for it. And that kind of pulls you.
To. You know, to that solution. How is that captured here in these forces?
Being pulled to the new solution from the wife.
No, no, I guess just like when something gets endorsed like in this case, this endorsement from the wife that kind of, helped convince the husband.
But I just see it like in like, you know, if I'm buying a pack of gum and and I know that it's, it's someone that I trust loves that.
How do I capture that here?
Yes.
Got it.
Yeah. So like the influencer economy that we're in right now a hundred percent pull so just like Bob put in the chat it's social proof So all of these forces can be anything of the functional, social or emotional.
It can be any of those 3 or a combination. That sounds like it's a social poll. It's a hundred percent pulp.
This person that I trust likes it. This person that I trust that also has a stake in it likes it like the wife or someone that is not even involved but I trust their opinion like an influencer likes it.
Another thing could be like they have it so I want it so I can fit in with them. There are lots of nuances with like what it is, but those are all pools.
Antonio and Marcel, let's take your 2 polls and then we're gonna move on.
Yeah, a couple of things. One of the things he mentioned is that, he had done a lot of research, but the reason why you want to buy it because he had to move and so there was a lot going on and finally after he moved and got settled and he was in a better mental state.
I would say he was in a better mental state. I would say he was ready to make the purchase.
And then the second thing I also remember from the interviews, the fact that he could always go back to the old mattress.
I think you mentioned he had 2 mattress in the same room and so the having the safety to go back roll back to the old.
Products, was also something maybe could could have been a pool anyway.
Yeah, and I think that's a pull because it's kind of counteracting the habit, which we'll get to in a second.
It's like, it's not, he doesn't even have to get rid of the habit because he's keeping the old mattress there.
So that's a poll where it's like he doesn't even have to take the risk.
And then the first one that you said. The moving thing is interesting because I think Nelson also put something similar in the chat about moving.
So the moving piece is actually, I would say a push and a pull because there's a pull where it's I now have the mental clarity like you were saying and Nelson was saying it's a push because he's moving so it's like an impetus like his whole life is kind of getting turned upside down and it's a good time for change.
And he kind of has to do something with his bed like it can't just stay where it is because he's moving to a new house.
So I would say it's kind of both. Okay.
I was thinking that he mentioned that he was a germophobe and I feel it was such a poor that he, when he was at Costco.
You might not be, I'm just remembering that, that he didn't wanna do online because he didn't wanna take the risk.
And they would the salespeople. So it was like the purpose scenario of Just being able to buy without going to a store or doing it online and being able to just feel it and have the option to return it if they don't want it.
Thank you, exactly. Yeah, a lot of people in the path have really honed it on the German folk piece.
Because it is a huge poll for him like he mentions it a few times. I'm now said I'm gonna have you put your pull in the chat because we're gonna move on to habit.
So for habits, remember habits are keeping Brian at the status quo. So what was his status quo?
What were the things he was worried about that he didn't want to give up? So it's different than like things he's just worried about in general.
Those are anxieties. Habit is What pained him to give up or to change?
What was he used to?
Lisa?
Exactly.
We're like, this is where that sun cost bars comes in, right? Lot the mattress thinking he'll have it for 10 years and it's spent the money thinking he'll it'll last him much longer.
That's exactly right. So when you said that earlier, that's what I was getting at.
So. I already paid for this and my like my uncle sold it to me. It was a good deal.
Not a great mattress, but I already bought it. You know, I can't go buy another one, even though it's so bad.
So the Costco. Marketers had to overcome that habit to make it even more worthwhile. Despite him wanting to kind of stay.
That's exactly right. David?
Yeah, this is almost an unspoken habit, but I guess their experiences. And constantly traveling like it seemed like majority of his time wasn't actually spent in the bed and in a way maybe exacerbated the problem but also gave them time to forget it like I wonder if he was at home.
Every single day would it been more prevalent versus hey I know every couple weeks I'm I'm away from my bed and so this problem then no longer isn't as important as it could be kind of thing.
That's exactly, yeah, I've never heard that before. I think that's spot on.
So. I'm used to the habit is pushing this rock down the road, right? Because I don't need to deal with it.
If I have something broken in my house and I never see it, I'm not gonna fix it.
So I never need to use my. I'm never there. That's the habit. That makes.
So much sense. Kevin?
Yeah, I think he mentioned about at 1 point how life got in the way. And he said that, you know, he was in the process of selling a house, you know, he has the kids, he's running a business.
So. I think these life things that happen. I don't know if that's necessarily a habit, but it seems like that was sort of, you know, a reason.
He kind of just kept going through the same motions within his life and just kept pushing it off. So in a sense, it's kind of a habit because you're just pushing it off because of these routines that keep coming up.
Yeah, I'm busy. My life is just working. Like it's good enough. That is kind of the entire point of habit that we're trying to overcome by selling a new solution is we're overcoming every person's good enough status quo is we're overcoming every person's good enough status quo.
So if we're selling to them, they obviously have a problem. It's not good. It's just good enough.
And that's exactly what you're getting at there. Dan.
I also think about that he's because he's germophobic. It's it's it's also habitual right so he's a he's a scared of changes because he had to touch he has to go somewhere He has to talk with people and feel uncomfortable around the crowd to like store or Costco.
So in this matter, the the you know the anxiety it's also habitual because he cannot he he's not willing to change that for this particular moment of purchase.
Yeah, I wanna highlight something you said. So. They're not willing to change piece is for habit and anxiety.
Yeah.
So I think the force I'm hearing you talk about specifically as an anxiety force because for both of them the customer is not willing to change, that it's pushing them away from the new solution, but those are fear-based versus habit-based.
Habit is much more like this is my life. So yours and Nelson put one in the chat.
How universally awful people describe going to a mattress store is and then you saying he's German phobic, all of that are anxieties.
So those are also moving him away from the new solution. So we can move on to anxiety unless other people in the chat are in the.
To have habits.
I had a question. So the kind of like connected to the good enough it feels like he can see this comfort as a fact of life as if you know come for improving in comfort is accessory is not kind of like a primary need.
Yes.
It only becomes primary when it leads to other problems. Right, so just like the whole the whole value proposition of a mattress is secondary to my life is not one of like the top 3.
That's that's exactly right. So just like pull and anxiety are opposites the push and habit are opposites too.
Like it's so cool how much thought playing Bob put into this. So the habits are keeping you there in your status quo until the pushes get so bad.
So just like you're saying, Ally, discomfort is not something I need to solve until it's hurting me so much that my family is gonna fall apart if I don't fix this, something like that.
Nelson, do you have any anxiety?
Something, yeah, that I'm not clear on it, whether it's a habit or an anxiety and it goes on addressed is what to do with the old mattress.
So he gets the new mattress and he was talking about like, oh, you know, I gotta get rid of the old mattress, but.
He didn't end up getting rid of it. He just kept it, right? So he's like, Collecting mattresses now at this point.
Okay.
Which feels like a missed opportunity from Costco to say like, hey, we'll take the old masters off their hands or whatever, but.
I wasn't sure like He powered through that one, but it definitely felt like something that he was struggling once.
So say we're Costco and we're interviewing Brian that might be a thread we want to follow with other interviews.
So it's like. It sounds like I think an anxiety of Brian was that he didn't want to buy a new one because he didn't know what to do with his old one.
So maybe we as Costco, if we hear that in multiple interviews and that becomes a trend, maybe we should do like you said, make a program where we're taking it in.
Maybe that will increase sales because there's clearly this anxiety that we can help. Balm for people.
Okay. Anybody else have an anxiety?
Okay.
The bed being sold by his uncle. Tighten down socially to maintain the relationship. Yeah, and that's definitely, I think, a habit.
Where it's like, he feels like he's tied to that old solution because that's from his uncle.
I don't think he feels like fear about it, but it is definitely something that is keeping him there.
Bob?
Perhaps fearing making another expensive mistake that he's stuck with for a long time? Is something I personally would probably feel anxious about.
Yeah, and I think he says that, right? He says like, I don't want this to be a mistake that you know we're a thousand dollars in the whole or something.
So exactly. And then Dan.
I can also part of his anxiety, it's what he. He, the wife will think about, right?
Because she's also the part of the decision-making process and I assume they sleep together and that matters so that's also be part of like we need to you know, embrace some kind of social proof from the person that you share this pain points with, you know, so and again, what wife would think about it, right?
Like what would you like, would she like that? You know, is it will be comfortable like more like more comfortable for her, you know, this kind of stuff that we all have to like, you know, consider what we make the big purchases.
Yeah, so that's probably the 2 biggest ones. What Dan said about the Wi-Fi and what Bob said about the price and just making this large purchase.
I think those are the 2 biggest anxieties followed by his German phobia, fear of going into the store and things like that.
We
I think one poll, sorry, did someone want to add?
He's getting rid of the old bed, is the right city or, because he wants to.
Go to the
Okay, I would say anxiety because it was a fear. It was like, I don't know what to do with this.
It wasn't a fear. It was like, I don't know what to do with this.
It wasn't like I want to do with this. It wasn't like I want to stay with the old bed.
It was if I do get this. It wasn't like I want to stay with the old bed.
It was if I do get this new one, I don't know where to put this one. So it was much more like a sticky situation.
Go ahead.
And I think just one. Whole that we left out was He wants to get that new sleep, not just to feel that well rested, like a good feeling like we talked about, but also to be a better family man.
So he wants to be a good father. I think he even said that he snapped at his children once.
Because he was so grouchy he doesn't want to do that he wants to be the father he knows he can be.
He wants to be the husband, he knows he can be, where they don't fight, ones have a good marriage and a good family and that is that poll that's like that beautiful horizon in the distance that he's trying to go toward.
So that's one more giant force that he kind of brings up a lot in the interview. Okay.
So I think we, that was pretty comprehensive. You guys really, really reviewed that and understand it deeply.
Does anyone have questions about the general exercise that we just did? Because After tomorrow, we're gonna send you guys out to try.
This out for yourselves.
Yes, are we gonna go through? How to create, sort of discussion guide questions.
You know.
Yeah, we'll go through how to interview today. But remember, I don't know if we've said this before, we don't pre write questions.
So the most important thing is that it's not scripted and we'll go through all those tips today and then Neil is gonna do an example for you guys tomorrow.
No, I lost you on my screen.
Maybe I got it working this time. Is it working now? Yeah, there we go.
There we go. Yep, it's working.
Back in my comfort zone with these slides, so this is where we left off yesterday. Marcel, you have a question?
Yeah, I think, I co-founder talk about this yesterday, but, I guess it's a bigger discussion.
I'm sure everybody's. My, always my My crossroads here is slide, why interview?
In our case, the restaurants would I interview the people who are buying the product. And when we did this for.
Our, application. I did both. But then now I'm like, after we're going deeper into this, I'm like, hmm.
And you mentioned yesterday, well, who is Spain? You for the product. Then I'm like, huh.
Maybe the customer, but it's just, you know, that's my question. It's like I'm still struggling with that concept.
And it's a continuous struggle. I will say that maybe more of what I covered today and getting in the details gonna help color that.
And then also the individual sessions that we'll work with each of you on is gonna help with that too.
So we got you on sorting that out.
Okay. Thank you.
Christy.
And just to add to that, some guidance on like. How we interview an existing customer versus a perspective customer.
Yeah, so again, like the only prospective customer front, we don't recommend prospective customer who haven't experienced the switch moment.
So, yeah.
If they did it with a competitor.
Yes, that's what you should focus on. So like don't think of jobs as sales.
Got it.
This is not sales. It's a different bucket of people you need to talk to. It's a different bucket of people you need to talk to to sell to acquire is a different bucket of people you need to talk to to sell to acquires customers this group of people you need to talk to to sell to acquire as customers, this group of people have already experienced some sort of change.
They either have progress elsewhere on a competing product or their recent customer of yours and those are the people that we're here to talk to to better understand what they you know, what drove them to make a decision.
Excellent. Okay.
To hire something. Yeah. Great. Alright, so.
The process. I'm going to go deep for each of these categories, but I have a few more things to explain as I go.
And this section of this leg of the race for us is a little bit more text heavy because it's largely extracted from before it didn't exist as a book.
Bob wrote a book a few years ago called Demand S Sales one on one. That'll be the first book in the book club that I'm going to start and open for everybody to participate in.
But I extracted a lot of the great excerpts from it. Which has done the best job so far of explaining the concept to date.
So, alright, so a couple of ways to think about it. So this technique for jobs to be done, where did it come from?
The interesting thing is Bob actually worked with the government like CIA, FBI, like he got like true.
Like interrogation and negotiation and analysis like techniques that he derived from like people who do it professionally in that context.
So the way to think about it is kind of like you're a journalist or a detective.
So the job going into the conversation in the interviews to figure out what the story is like what happened here.
You're trying to almost paint the scene of the crime or, you know, get to get the, you know, get the scoop.
So think of yourself like, you know, Colombo or Sherlock Holmes. And then we talked a little bit about adding context and how important that is rather than having a more high level thing.
And this is true both for the screening criteria as well as how you describe the job when you get there.
But adding that context is what a allows you to address those things. That would push a customer away from adopting your product or service.
So the the snickers example that we used before. What I mean by that context is A lot of people will describe their businesses at a very high level and they'll say something along the lines of.
When I want something to eat. Grab a sneakers. Right? That was very similar to.
The original commercial that we saw of the guy in the rug store and he's the the guitar guy singing you all were adding a lot of color to what you thought was going on, but we were reaching.
We didn't have those details from. The actual ad itself, it was our assumptions based on the other inputs that we already knew about snickers.
So my question to you is when I want something to eat, contextualized or is there more detail we can add to this and if so do you have that?
To share.
Yeah.
I'll take a step. I mean, we eat all types of things, right? So I think context of day, right, of why you're eating.
Okay, okay.
Well, this is for the snickers bar. So when I want something to eat, grab a snickers. Is that right?
Or is there more context to add to grab a snickers?
When you move.
What I need the energy when I need some, some kind of extra power and, I need a boost.
Okay, how about if I'm if I'm in a hurry?
You know, that kind of explains it. Gives it. Gives it more context.
Let's do more. Let's give it more context.
Time of the day.
So in in the actual. In, in that scene. Well, from one something to the clean where when I need a boost of energy, right?
Maybe that's something on a coffee break.
Right.
Yeah, yeah, and maybe when you need that boost. Like sometimes like. You're really hungry.
Right? So I'm starving.
I need. It's an indulgence, right? It's not. Team.
Thank you. Yeah.
So the difference between when I want something to eat, grab a snickers and when I want, when I'm in a rush, I'm starving and I want something to eat, grab a snickers.
The context that is colored. With just a few more words. Offering that extra clarity is everything.
Lilian, did you want to say something and then there's 2 name Bob.
I'll say at the end of this for this slide.
Okay.
I was just gonna add that, when, you want something to eat while you're doing something else as well.
So it's kind of like multitasking.
Hey, there we go. You finished the job here. So there it is. So when I'm in a rush, I'm starving.
Okay, cool.
I need something to eat with one hand when I'm on the go and I'm not sure when the next time I'll be able to eat this.
Grab a sneakers. That level of fidelity with the context of each of your customers in all of your respective businesses.
Is what we're looking for and what most people struggle to attain. This is what the jobs framework will help you do.
A lot of people amongst your competitors will describe they're in a rush and they want something to eat.
That's better than I want something to eat, but it's not really that good. So our goal with you all for the first few weeks of our program going into tech stars is that when you go into mentor madness, The level of clarity you have about your customer situation is going to be so robust and clear that you'll get into the real stuff about what to do with product, what to do with fundraising
and what to do with sales and not get so distracted where they don't have an understanding of who it is you're trying to sell to in the first place and what they need.
Bob?
Yeah, everything you just said it feels like what I have to say is kind of off the point, but I'm gonna share anyways.
It's all good.
You know, you when you're hungry, up.
One of the things I remember from the commercials is you're not yourself when you're hungry and so Textually, you're hungry.
And when you're not in like the normal state of mind or happy. Here's the solution to your problem.
Yeah.
It's a sneakers. Like, not kind of be in many different situations which is why they got a bunch of commercials for that but I get
Oh, 100%. Well, Bob, your point stands because to be clear, what I'm showing you here is on the business side of understanding what the situation is that informs our product development and marketing process.
Okay.
This is not the marketing. I'm not saying, I'm not putting a billboard up saying, are you rush starving and you need something to eat with one hand on the go buy a stickers I'm not saying that it's not a promotional tool this is a contextual tool for us internally to do product development.
So I appreciate your point. I think it's right.
Ali.
Yeah, it's more of a question. How does the fact that this is an in, suite?
Yeah.
Packed with calories playing to these because it's not mentioned there's other options for the exact same purpose
That's a great question.
So, yeah, that's a great question. I don't know if you remember Clay Christianson's milk check video.
He addressed this on the nose in the best way possible. He goes, You know, the milkshake in the morning, he goes.
Who cares what's in it? I don't. I just know that it keeps me full and I'm not worried about, you know, my hunger and I'm no longer bored in my in my commute throughout the day.
So at the end of the day there are other products to hire right if the issue and concern is more health related.
But there are tweaks to products that can be made. So McDonald's didn't just keep selling milkshakes in the morning.
What did they do?
I the offer.
Yeah.
They turned him in the smoothies in par phase, right? Like. Yeah, they expand the offering in a way to make you feel better about the fact that you're consuming.
A massive amount of calories in a very small container. But at least you feel better about it and it's slightly better.
There's some granola in it. There's some berries, you know, it's a little better now.
But there there are ways to target the subgroups that may have more resistance to how you would perceive something like stickers to be quote unhealthy.
But when it's about the job, it's not about. Health as much as it's about energy.
Okay.
Right? So they're willing to make that trade off in that moment because of the convenience.
Yeah. Ali, I think that was a great example of like a preconceived notion. So like, I even think that too when I think of snickers it's like Oh, well that's a candy bar.
Candy. Yeah.
But the people who are buying it. The person Bob saw in the airport and same with the people that Clay interviewed for McDonald's.
They were not hiring those as candy because the competitor for the milk shaker remember was bagel and cream cheese.
It was a banana. Those are the things that Clay mentioned. For Bob, the things in the collective set, remember the pictures, Neil put up, it was a hamburger, it was a power protein bar, things like that.
So even though maybe you, even if you're selling the snicker, maybe you see it as a dessert, you see it as a dessert, you see it as candy, but your customers don't.
And so it's not going to be present in the job statement. And honestly, it was probably a not high priority.
It was probably a very low priority for McDonald's to change the sugar. Cause they could have just kept marketing it.
And that, exactly, and that mindset was why they were so caught up in competing directly with Milky Way, which actually was treated like a true dessert.
Yes.
Like a calorie dense candy. Ice cream bar, you know, like those types of things.
So the fact that they were thinking in that way is what ended up kind of tripping them up for a while.
Before we move on from this slide now, 2 things I like to highlight here. So Neil got at one of them.
This is the first part of the jobs to be done statement. You're going to write one of these for every interview you do and then you will write a amalgamation.
JTVD statements for your entire subset of interviews that you do 2 mistakes that we see. Neil was saying, they're usually too vague.
So when I want something to eat is what people usually begin their job statement with that level of clarity and depth.
We want it to get to the very, very specific situation where you can pinpoint that exact moment and all of the attributes that make up that circumstance.
Do you see that it has nothing to do with any sort of person. It doesn't say when I'm a man in my thirtys to fortys and I live in a metropolitan area than I do that this could be anyone.
This could be my grandma. This could be a little girl across the street. This could be any one of you.
It could be anyone. And the second mistake I always see people make is that when they write the job statement, this beginning part is tailored to the product because you in the back of your mind know that you want this job statement to lead to your product.
This, what we're writing right here is not tailored to a snickers. So if I was selling snickers and I wanted it to be closer to sneakers I would probably write when I'm in a rush starving have a sweet tooth and want something that has like nuts or something like that.
But that's not what the people are asking for. They want something that they can eat with one hand.
That is going to fulfill their starving need and they're not sure when the next time they're going to be able to eat it.
So it stays in there for a while. That can actually be filled with many different things. So don't kind of Reverse engineer your job statement to fit your product and people well meaningly do that like they don't mean to.
Yes.
It'll be subconscious. You just have preconceived notions that you have to kind of expel for this and just pretend like you're not selling your products so you can be objective.
Does that make sense?
And we'll point out where exactly in the formula that happens all the time momentarily, but that was very well said.
Brian?
Yeah, I hope you guys can hear me. I think my internet is not the best. Okay, cool.
Yep, you're fine.
So I kind of Wonder outside the box for a minute and I'm just curious How does observation complement and detract the jobs to down process?
When you say observation.
Cause I could see the McDonald observation, yeah. So like user or customer observation or the existing or, potential customers.
Help us understand what you mean.
So, cause I could see in them. So for example, in the McDonald's example, they observed something and it kind of created a riddle for them.
Yeah. Yeah.
Whereas with the sneakers example you gave, No, it is something that led him to us the URECA moment. And there's a form of custom observation.
There's some just wondering, yes, and I can have an interview conversation with him. Oh, but how does observation as a tool in terms of getting more inferences about your customer complement or what?
Okay.
Yeah, these are easy examples because they're physical goods that you can observe someone purchasing and consuming.
Not the case for most of you all, right? And what you're offering and what you're trying to sell and understand.
Given that I would say that observation becomes less important like in real time and what's great about this framework and all the reps that have been done over the past 2030 years on it has been
It still works in conversation with people in an interview post consumption. And post purchase.
But if you can do it, it's great. David.
Yeah, I was hoping, I guess maybe not the time put a little, explain a bit more about the job statement and.
It seemed like when we were just working through this, you mentioned the goal is to get to deep clarity and context about the customer situation.
But it almost felt like there still needs to be this iterative process that happens in the sense that like There's no way we can start off with that.
Gotcha. Yeah.
Snickers before because we just saw the commercial like it almost like you told us the answer versus the mattress thing where if we were to take Brian for example.
We may have a version of it, but. Brian also might not be exactly what we're looking for, specifically like when it comes to touching the mattress, but he's a germophobe and so.
Yeah.
That was one interview, right? You want to do like 10 to 15 of those. And then what you do with those 10 to 15 interviews, David, is then you see patterns and merge.
And once the patterns emerge and you cluster the jobs and then you realize that there's Brian and then there's you know Lucy and then there's like you know, Jayden, they all have different things that they want need and there's different profiles and different jobs to do for each of them.
Yeah.
And you have to decide as a business, do we address all of them? Do we choose one and go deep?
Right? Do we take a couple and throw one out? There's a lot of choices that you have once you get those incense.
So we'll talk about what that looks like today.
Sure.
One quick follow up is should the jobs. Change per interview or should we have one hypothesis that we're testing with each?
Great question. Great question. So. The screening criteria that you define should develop a sense of consistency with who you're talking to and what situation they're in and what they're struggling moments are.
However, once you do the analysis post the interview.
I and and Bob hasn't actually like commissioned this this was like a little bit of a tweak on my side that I think is helpful to founders that I work with.
I have every founder I work with. Craft a job statement for each individual interview that they can conduct.
I found that to be a great starting point to keep everybody going and help them understand what the cluster job would look like.
Once they understand what the job is for each of the people they talk to. That's not necessarily a technique or tactic that I think Bob has taught quite yet, but it is something that I found to be helpful for how I teach it.
Does that answer your question? Okay, cool.
And then I'll show you David. We'll show you in week one how to do that.
So this is with each of those job statements that you collect. For your interviews and the more.
And yeah, and so you know like everybody on my team. Is trained in this. Like that's how I bond with people and how I choose who I get along with is like.
They start off learning jobs with me and then I'm like, yeah, okay, we can hang out.
And then, okay, now we can work together, cause they get it and they can help other people get it.
So, alright, so job story. I just talked about this a little bit, but. The notion here is exactly what Liliana just, expanded upon.
Because most of us for most of the time even up till now with your business. You have a lot of assumptions, a lot of subjectivity and personas around who you think you're serving.
That's not completely wrong. To be clear, your intuition. And your experience in your life has led you to a point where you've identified a meaningful problem to solve with your business.
We believe you. So just to be clear, like we're not completely dismissing. The importance of one's own instincts when it comes to addressing a need and understanding other people's needs.
But I think we can kick it up a notch and enhance your understanding of those needs. So the persona that lots of UX and marketer people like to use.
Tins to include demographic information that we throw out. So, you know, if I, I teach at a business school and it's ironic that I teach in the business school because I do nothing but talk trash about business school students even to their face.
But, I tell them like you all were trained to do this like marketing profile persona thing. And we're gonna have to throw all that out the window.
I'm sorry because it's irrelevant to our understanding now. Later on, when you're at scale and you have thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions of users and customers in a huge data set, this actually does become interesting.
And relevant. But right now when you're trying to get your first 100 customers 30 s to buy and eat something that is going to stave off my hunger for 30 min, explains it.
Not. My professional career or my weekend habits.
So, few principles to run through. People buy for their own reasons. So it's more about progress than your product.
Or service and the more you internalize that, the better off you'll be in understanding this. Approaching sales from this mindset is going to set you apart.
As the co-founder or CEO of your company. As the lead chief sales person like Vincent talked about yesterday when we kicked off our call.
Another principle to share with you is that nothing is random and everything is caused. This is slightly hyperbolic, but I believe it.
And the causal mechanisms that lead people to take actions are key. And that is a fundamental kind of mindset to adopt when you're taking in jobs to be done.
Oh, another side thing. I don't know if this is said anywhere in my slides in the future, but I should say.
I say jobs to be done a lot. We say jobs to be done a lot. It's irrelevant outside of our context here, together.
So just so you know, when you're talking to venture capitalists, when you're talking to you know, your team, other stakeholders, you don't have to say jobs to be done.
If anyone's seen the movie fight club zoom I know the first rule of fight club Somebody knows it.
Don't talk about Python.
Don't talk about it. That's right. So I kind of say that with jobs. It's like kind of our like little secret weapon, but at the same time, it's not that deep.
It's really just. I'm understanding my customer better. Like that's a very human simple way to put it.
Like we're just doing customer discovery. And empathizing and understanding. So we have a fancy language and framework around it, but don't take it too seriously.
It's not that big of a deal. At the end of the day, other people have found ways to get to the same level of understanding we're talking about, maybe more indirectly or intuitively because they're just an empathetic or a really smart person.
So, 3, the struggle creates demand. So understanding the struggling moment, not just a wish, a want, a nice to have a desire, a prospect.
When they're struggling, that leads to progress and sales. So helping them figure out. How to overcome the struggling moment is key and when I talk to so many people who struggle to identify a customer they're trying to they're trying hard and they can't get people to say yes or to sign up or to go for a trial.
I asked him, well, what's your struggling moment? And they're like, well, and then kind of like waffle their way through explaining that there isn't really a struggling moment yet.
So figure out who's struggling and those are the people willing probably to pay you. So I'm gonna skip this one and talk about who you interview and how to choose them.
So here's one other technique that I kind of. Came up with that helps people if you ever get stuck and you're not sure who you should talk to is for your business, I advise everybody to write a customer success story.
So what problem is your customer currently facing? How does that impact their lives? And why is this a significant pain to them?
If you just write a story about what they struggle with and then what success would look like for them in an ideal world.
So what does their life look like after the problem is solved? That exercise seems to illuminate. All of our biases in assumptions that we're making about what we think the person is going through as opposed to what we might go find out.
So it's a great like starting point to form a hypothesis around what you think you'll know.
Because for the people who are more skeptical of approaches like this to a discovery framework. I'll just tell them like, all right.
Let's just say that you already know the answer and you know the jobs. Let's go into the research saying that we think this is what we're going to learn and I'm asking you to maybe waste one or 2 weeks of your time on talking to people to tell you something that you already know.
Sure, I'll take that risk if you trust me in the process. I've never had a moment where I've asked them one to do it where they haven't learned new and beneficial things for their company.
After coming out the other end. So, as you do this exercise, if you choose to do it, I'm not going to ask you all the right a customer success story.
This is an optional exercise. But make sure you don't describe features or functionalities of your product.
Focus on the experience and then make sure that you're using a story. As a way to communicate what's really going on.
And then when you talk about the solution. Talk about how progress is achieved today. So, the success story that you define.
When you imagine how people might be able to make real progress. You can do like some initial scoping interviews.
Where you focus on understanding what are all of the different things that people hire. To accomplish my job today.
So in in fancy VC terms, we would call this competitive analysis. This is what we do on our side to make sure that whoever we invest in, we understand the competitive landscape.
You all have probably gotten that question plenty of times already by now. You've been talking to investors.
So when you think about what the alternative hires are, there's both direct and indirect competitors.
The direct ones are the people who do what you do. The ones that you know you had a little stinging pain feeling in your heart because you're like, they stole my idea.
They're kind of doing it, but we're better or we want to be better. The way I asked the question, which some of you may remember in our conversations, is I go.
Who do you admire? Amongst your competitors? Like who's doing it right? Who are you learning from?
I really love looking up to people who are doing it because they keep me honest. I have to be good enough as a CEO and as an entrepreneur to run a business that can directly compete with other people that are trying to carbon copy my style.
And I need to be unique enough to be able to do that. So I can't win or compete off of having a secret about what I do.
There needs to be more depth there. That isn't is easy to copy. If you can say the words of what you're doing and that puts you at risk because someone else can take those.
Words and do the same thing. Your business is too fragile in that state.
Alright, so learning objective. I talked about framing the learning questions. So we've talked about understanding the importance of the customer.
Now we hone in on the objective. So what is the biggest unknown? That is important to you and your business right now.
Yes.
You're going into tech stars. You have goals. You have dreams. You want to either raise capital or you want to increase customer success or you want to, you know, increase revenue, you have some sort of goal that you're going to feed to us that we'll work with you on.
Now from this discovery and customer research process, help us define what that would look like for you and why it's important.
Once you've done that, now you move in the screening criteria. So this is where we talk about the energy and how extreme it should be for these initial people you talk to.
And then on top of that, I also offered up the shocking news that We're not looking to interview 100 people.
We're trying to talk to 10 to 15 people. So remember the quality. Baguettes quantity.
And that is our priority here. And it was shocking and I tell you myself, I did not believe it at first.
When Bob told me 10 years ago. 10 to 15 interviews is enough. I didn't believe him.
I was like super skeptical. I thought like having more numbers and more perspective and more people would color it.
But here's what happened. As we were doing interviews through multiple experiments. Once you're past the 15 interview mark.
And you're talking to more people who fit the screening criteria that you defined. The interviews start to get shorter.
Because you start to fill in the gaps of what they're going to say because the patterns are already there.
So if it's not 10 to 15 interviews, which is an arbitrary number, I know. Do as many.
Where you get to the point where you can predict what they're going to say. And if you're doing jobs to be done right, by the time you're 15 or 20.
You know what's going on. And you know which job they fit into. You're like, oh, they're in job number one or their job number 2.
Or they're not their job number 3 and 2. So you'll start to slot people into the insights that have already emerged as the true patterns for the hires.
Which I love that moment. It means you did it right. When you can do that. I said this phrase last week or yesterday, but you need switching.
So we're not talking to people who complain. Like people who aren't willing to do anything about progress.
Those are people who you could sell to potentially. But they're not people that we want to talk to to better understand what the problem is because they haven't done enough yet to make progress, to teach us more about the problem.
Like we said, it's not about demographics. Asian geography aren't saying enough about the problem.
Here's some examples of the contrast and J. Lo if J is Jalo here or you want to call there you are I see you This reminds me of what you asked me about yesterday.
So here's the next start from Bob's book that I think would be really helpful. So a couple of examples here.
So college students with busy and stressful schedules. Contrast that with college students who started going to therapy within the past 6 months.
Very different ways of framing who you want to talk to. So stay away from like the vague categorization of someone who has an attribute or characteristic and instead focus on an action that they took that you can track.
And talk about. So when you go into the interview, you could talk about They hired a therapist.
What went into that decision. As opposed to having a certain feeling or difficult, you know, moment that they're experiencing.
Another one people who are curious about cryptocurrency. Versus people who recently, you know, bought.
Bitcoin. I interviewed a MD candidate this morning and it was interesting. We were kind of like ran out of things to say I like finished my questions.
He goes, did you hear about Bitcoin? Is it 60,000 today? I was like, no, I didn't know.
But I'm sure some of you guys are happy if that's good for you. I have no idea.
I'm shilling. I'm investing in you guys. Other markets. So I'll keep going.
So note for B 2 B. Businesses don't buy products people do. I made this point yesterday as well.
But the decision maker and usually it's more than one, right? There's a chain of command that you have to navigate through.
So figure out the key stakeholders, whoever the champion can be, and understand their job. So one person may want to look like they're The hero, another person may want to cover their ass and make sure that they're not, you know, getting in trouble or reprimanded from something that went, you know, poorly at the company.
There's so many different emotional reasons for why people use them to be to be context would hire you.
For progress or become a customer of yours. So we can help you with that. One of the big questions we get with jobs is how to find the people to interview.
So there's a few ways, but we have a few very clear ways that have, you know, most of our founders have found success through.
There's a website called respondent dot I/O. So when you get good enough with your screening criteria.
And you have clarity on what it is. I haven't had to use these platforms to find people.
I use my own network and I'll talk about some of those techniques. But just make sure that It's very, very clearly stated and defined.
But you should be able to find folks through these platforms. But it's really important to take extra caution around the survey.
So a lot of people when you're having conversations. You'll ask leading questions. And instead of asking them like if they've purchased, you know, a thing in the past 6 months.
That very, very special clause and in word win. When did you buy? So when I learned to use WIN instead of why or have you?
It changed the game because when grounds you in reality when forces people to go back into time and space when they were literally doing something and say what happened.
So when is a much more powerful tool in the jobs to be done interview than one? You can.
Also include open ended questions. So this gives the interviewee room to fill in the gaps rather than you getting too detailed and too specific in a way.
That narrows what they have to say. Another way to get interviewees is to leverage your personal networks.
This is pretty much how I've done it 99% of the time. Is I will leverage you know wherever these people live or I would ask for referrals from my network.
Most of you are forming community in some way, shape, or form with your business. There are those communities that you're familiar with where you can tap into finding people to talk to who've recently struggled.
So. One of the challenges you're gonna face though is that it's super Like, easy to find people who are related to the problem you're solving.
But it's gonna be a lot harder to screen for the actual behavior. So you need to be pretty stringent on the screening criteria.
And just know that even though it's hard. That means that your competitors are probably not doing it either.
So I get excited when I have very narrow, very challenging screening criteria to find people to talk to because It's very likely that no one else within my, you know, category of business.
Are doing that kind of work. Doing the hard job of finding the right people to talk to in those situations.
So that is like. I think part of the hunt. That makes this process meaningful and I enjoy it.
And if any of you all struggle to find the right people to talk to. We're happy as a team to help brainstorm better ways to find the right people to speak to.
So here's a summary of the process. Interview people who search from one product to another. Understand their decision making process.
And you analyze the forces that made them switch. We'll talk about how to frame the interviews in a second and then what to do afterwards too, but this is like a quick checkpoint.
To make sure that everything we've shared so far makes sense. Any questions on this?
Antonio?
Yeah, so. Paley and I identify 4 potential customers where B 2 B to C.
And I was wondering whether we should do like 10 to 15 interviews for each of the 4 categories or Yeah.
Okay, so what I would say is kind of similar what we talked about yesterday.
You should, given your resources, you might want to choose one. Versus the other that will teach you the most about the problem.
So if you have the stomach for it, there have been plenty of examples of founders who have had a dual process.
Were they interview both segments and subsets? But the problem is I would be caution, I would caution you not to conflate the 2.
So if you're going to do it, have separate. You know, kind of initiatives to do so because each interview sprint.
Has its own characteristics and experiences. And it's really hard to like switch brains. From one category to the other when you're doing debriefs and whatnot
Yeah, what we've seen from people in the past is during this jobs to be done set that we're all gonna do together that everyone's required to do, they'll do one and then in like week 3, once we finish that, they'll start with the other set and you can get personalized help from our team if you want to continue doing DTV after.
You do it with the whole group.
Yep.
I was just going to ask that if we could get feedback from you. To just like discuss this 4 categories and get your input as to what would be the best way to go with the resources we have.
Yeah.
This is what I think in I mean, there's hopefully other characteristics of our program that are special and unique, but this is like bread and butter for us.
Like this is what we bring to the table that arguably no other, you know, experience or program can offer.
So I'm really proud to offer that to you all. Go ahead, sure.
Something we wanted to introduce today, Neil, is that our team, Sophie, and Kate are going to be having one on ones.
I'm going to send out a Calum lay later today, so that you can sign up.
And every single person here is gonna have a one on one for jobs to be done either tomorrow or Friday or next week whenever you guys are free.
And they're going to sit with you and try and get your screening criteria down to a T.
And that's also a time that you can talk to them about what group you should be interviewing.
So you are gonna have those one on ones in the coming days.
But to be clear, the reason all of y'all are here. Is because you already have demonstrated to us that you have a level of understanding of this.
Process and framework that stood out.
Across a thousand people who through their hat in the ring you do all stood firm as the ones who had the most potential to grasp this in the timeframe that we have.
So I made literally this framework a part of my selection criteria for who I invest in. Because of how important it is.
So. Alright. Oh, oh, Dr. Kelvin.
Okay, sorry, Neil. Just to clarify for a business that has a B 2 B+B to C but is the B 2 B aspect.
That are the paying customers. If we're doing like 10 to 15 interviews, would it be wise to Like, you know, I think yesterday the implication was interview the people that are paying.
So would it be wise to do 10 interviews for the B to be? But still because the order B to C, maybe it's free for them.
Just do 5 interviews just to get a feel of. Exactly what they want or should we just focus on doing interviews on just the pain?
I think. Yeah, we can help you in the screening criteria exercise. Sorry to jump in. I just want to clarify it.
Okay.
So, I think on the B 2 C side, if you said they're not paying.
We might want to refine that further. So I would need to take more time with you to like better understand what we want to learn on the BDC side.
Okay. Okay.
To know where the friction is because I wouldn't advise. Loosely interviewing people who, you know, are your users, but you don't quite know what the energy is.
Like we need to dig a little bit deeper to make sure we understand what we're trying to learn from them.
Sure.
Okay, so sorry Just to clarify something in not a question about them not pain just that maybe, let's say you You are prioritizing group, user group for just like one Facebook that you.
Prioritizing user groups but then the opinion indirectly from because we are dealing with recruitment agencies as well as doctors.
Yeah.
So we're trying to make the doctors free. In the pool and then the agencies are paying so indirectly the doctors are also paying true residual so yeah
Okay.
Got it. Okay, so. I this is a definitely like a deeper offline. To help you because what you're describing is that you have a few stakeholders at different levels.
Yeah.
And we're gonna need to if your goal is to increase that like the Facebook example you just gave it's funny you say that because What are we to Facebook?
I don't know if any of you all are even Facebook users, but I am and I was on it in 2,005 when you know they expanded a few universities and mine was one of them.
But as a user on Facebook, what am I?
I'm just saying another product.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm the product. Is a little creepy But it's true. Like you're the product if you're on social media, if you're on Instagram or TikTok or Facebook or any of those platforms.
You're not a customer for sure. And your half user. More than half product. Because they're tracking your keystrokes.
They might even be tracking where your eyes are going. The tracking what you're looking at, what you slow down and scroll on.
They're looking at all of that information to sell to advertisers so that they can get you to buy products from them.
That's the job. So it's it's a strange line of work and it's a business model that I can't teach you how to be successful at but.
As a product myself, I feel used. Yeah. Sanjay?
Yeah, so this is one question related to my confounder asked, Kelvin asked. So in our case, we do have a B 2 B where, I have, One question related to the B 2 B is.
So how do we find the or how do we interview the right person because sometimes the decision makers are not going to be the users.
Correct. Yeah, so. My default is still to focus on the decision maker because they're still hiring you for a job.
But if you fail to address the users needs in the product experience. Then your product will over time not be successful.
And, and, and so on one end, it's important to understand the person who's paying and signing, you know, the making the final sign off.
On the other hand, your point is absolutely true. You need to understand the job of the user as well, which is fundamentally different than the person probably signing off signing up for it.
So I think of any example like. In university, we have these learning management systems. So it's now Canvas used to be the other thing called Blackboard, at least in the United States.
Terrible like experience on the student side. But for my university administrative standpoint, it's what we need.
Right for the data for the resources, the benefit, but any enterprise tool that's bloated.
Is usually like force fed to the users of it. At the institution. So. Startups have the opportunity to disrupt that.
Literally disrupt that and then bring something that actually cares to the needs of the users prior like first.
So a good case study for this would be base camp. Base camp tends to break into large corporations. Within Teams.
So it's not like the whole company adopts the platform, but little subgroups will go, we don't want to use Salesforce to do project management or we don't want to use you know whatever other tools so they'll start using base camp on the side so it's like a little higher almost that they utilize it for.
But there's a lot of cases like that that we can help you all get closer to understanding and there is a way to still do jobs to be done interviews.
With people who aren't the direct payer within a BDB context. However, the energy will be different.
So there's other things that you might have to do to better understand what their job would be. Liliana
Yeah, that's us actually a tech stars for sure.
Neil was talking about us with doing base camp on the side. It's I put this in the chat earlier but basically We recommend that every single one of you who have purchasers different than users start with the purchasers while we're doing this altogether and we will help you go back doing a second round for the users.
Like Neil saying, it's equally as important that you get the product right, but we have to start with the revenue.
So I just raised my hand because there's a whole dialogue going on in the chat and I just wanted to address.
Cause a lot of people are asking about using respondent and how to find interviewees. So I see some of you saying you've used like hundreds of dollars before for just a couple of interviews.
I don't want any of you to do that. So we give respondent as an option, but that should be like your last case scenario.
First case scenario is your own network. I saw someone say doesn't that give bias. No, because you aren't going to interview anyone that you personally know.
So if you personally know them, you need a co-founder to do it or you can have Kate do it or you can have Sophie do it.
But you need to use your network host to Facebook. Have you ever had only 30 s to eat and like need something that's gonna hold you over for 30 min?
If so, come talk to me. I just need 15 min every time. Something like that. Just ask your network or do you know someone who works at a company who fits X criteria?
It could be a friend of a friend. Have your co-founders put that out as well.
Also, the most profitable way to ask has also been for our founders asking their fellow classmate.
So if you don't know someone from your network and your co-founders don't.
You're classmates probably do. So everyone usually helps each other like, oh, my mom fits that or my roommate works at a company that is literally doing what you're selling to like here you go and then we trade and we help and it's give first so there are many free ways that I want you all to exhaust before you even think about paying, these should all be free.
You're not paying these people because the majority of people we're seeing from experience, the majority of people on our programs do not have to pay for the interviews.
We've had every class for the past. I think 6 programs. Do these JTVD sessions and very few of them have had to pay more than like $20 total.
Respondent is pretty cheap. You can pay very cheaply on there. We're going to have someone from a past company named Zest come and talk and they actually did all their interviews on respondent, but they didn't pay very much.
So I definitely don't want you guys paying like. Tens or hundreds of dollars, that's not what should happen here.
This should be completely free if not just pennies on the dollar. That's it. Does everyone, did other people have questions?
Because. There were like 7 people giving questions in the chat. So I just wanna address everybody's.
Comments.
Okay, cool. Thanks, Neil.
So I, there's a perfect example of what the point I was making before in the chat, L, so Bob dropped in a question.
People who use Basecamp, what does it do for you and why did you adopt it? So, given what I've taught you all so far.
How would you think I would reframe that question?
Yeah.
Yeah, there it is Brian you got it when exactly so think about the difference. Why did you adopt base camp?
Why did I about that? When you signed up for Base Camp. What was going on? What happened?
When was that? Was that 5 years ago? No, it's a all of a sudden you have to talk about time.
You have to talk about where you were, what you were doing, who you were with. What you had to actually get done.
So rather than saying why is like, well, because I wanted to be more productive. Well, why did you want to be more productive?
Why I wanted it and all of a sudden now I'm in like La La Land thinking about all these potential assumptions I could make up.
What I reason was. But when you asked me when. That forces me to tell you what was actually going on when I made that decision.
Case in point. So thanks for the question, Bob. I appreciate that, Tia. Good job, Ryan.
All right, Jalo.
A follow up question to that. So when You're trying to get the context and you're asking like when they made the purchase.
Do you ask them when they made that switch specifically or when they considered making a switch? Because I don't know.
Okay.
You work your way back in the timeline. Start from the moment where they made the purchase. So when you bought it, what was going on?
And now we start to paint the picture going backwards. Through that timeline. Right? So when you think about when you started an interview, so if you have the screen criteria right, you're talking to everyone about the same thing.
You hired a therapist. In the past 6 months, you hired a therapist. Okay, when you hired a therapist.
What was going on? Where you ultimately made that decision and you realized that it wasn't just a spur of the moment, whimsical, out of nowhere.
I'm gonna hire therapist today. But it was premeditated. There were multiple inputs. They talked to people about it.
They were thinking about doing it. They Google searched it a few times and then forgot about it and then they went back and then finally something triggered them to go, yes, I'm going to do this.
Hmm, okay.
Still that's the the color in the story that happens with most of these interviews that you all will conduct
Cool. This is great. You all like, I hope you realize like the it's super dense like the ideas that you all are unpacking the clarifying questions that you're asking, the clarifying questions that you're asking.
This is the level of sophistication that you're asking. This is the level of sophistication that we're hoping to get to with understanding this this framework.
Yeah, I've got one more.
Sure, go ahead.
So when you're doing the jobs to be done framework, there's obviously the separation between physical goods versus, you know, finance.
There's no physical good provided. Now, obviously the question that most people ask might be How do you the job to be put done framework if they don't already use something like what you have.
Huh. Yeah.
So what you have by definition is a startup doesn't exist within the within the market. Then how do you ask them what they use is the alternative?
Yeah.
Now that works especially well for physical goods because there's an alternative of a substitute but is there specific ways in which you adopt this adapt this framework for intangible goods, visit like money movement.
And ask those questions.
Yeah. Sure, yeah, what are they doing now? To make progress, are they doing nothing to make progress?
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
If they're doing nothing, then it may not be a good. Like potential customer, right? You're not willing to do anything to make progress.
What are we trying to learn? So there the people you want to talk to are the people who are actively doing something else to make progress.
Yeah, makes sense. So the early, likely in our case like earlier stage starts who are willing to do more innovative things or move quicker.
Well, it could be indirect as well. It may not be on the nose exactly what you're doing and they're just hiring a different competitor to do it.
They might be having some other. Long winded or roundabout way to make progress or creative very Customized way to do it.
Most of you have something in your life where you packed together an answer even though no clear answer exists in the market Because there is nothing to buy to help you with it.
You do it yourself. The example that you'll hear in visceral detail for me when we're in like Tahoe together.
Is my big claim to fame, I guess, or whatever, maybe people forgot, but I started the first coding school.
I invented the coding boot camp. So that's like my big thing. Why? It wasn't because I was a good coder.
No, I was actually kind of bad. But I tried so hard to learn how to code on my own and it sucked so much.
I said there has to be a place that I can go. To help me learn. And there wasn't.
So I said, holy cow, maybe actually started. And I was right and it worked and there's a whole story about how but like my point being is that There might be a few of you, I doubt it, but there might be a few of you that have what we call non-consuming or non-consumption.
Meaning there's literally no direct. Competitor for what you offer in the market. And you are the only game in town.
That is actually not a good thing. I know this from my own experience. Do you know why?
You have to keep. You have to teach them that there's a need around them.
Well, not necessarily. Sometimes you teach in the nature. Other times, once you offer it, it's like, oh my god, like I've been waiting for this and no one's ever done it and I'm so glad that you're doing it.
But that's bad too. Because you're the first person to bring it to market You're the worst.
So then everyone else is gonna watch you suck at delivering a new thing to the market and then they're gonna take what you did and do it better.
Yeah.
And they're gonna wait till you trip up and make the mistakes and whatever. So there used to be this thing in business called first mover advantage.
That's true. In very rare circumstances where if you have a ton of money or you get a ton of traction and you can develop a very quick kind of moat or monopoly around what you're doing.
Super rare. So first mover advantage is actually first move or disadvantage. In my experience because when you see someone break into a market.
Usually a bunch of better things come out. So for example, Facebook was not the first social media website.
Has anyone heard of Friendster? Does anyone know about black planet.com? Do you know about black planet? So black planet.
So black planet was actually one of the first social media sites. So Black Planet was actually one of the first social media sites.
You don't know about that. I was on that. I was a kid, but it was dope.
It was basically a place for black people. It was like Facebook for black people before Facebook existed. It was great.
I loved it. So anyway, I could go all day, but there's more Antonio.
Sure.
Yeah, a question more about the logistics of the other interview. So, you know, I realized that, you know, I really need to be emotionally connected to the person I interview and, you know, taking notes can be distracting and not not be present.
Good.
So. How do you recommend doing that? Maybe having my co-founder do do it with me, but then instead of dividing conquer, it's any other thing.
I, no, sorry, you, you should finish.
Yeah, go ahead. In the second question, follow-up question, about logistics also is it?
I think I was reading some comments on listening to some comments about the mattress interview that it's better to do face to face.
Is that the case or do zoom and voice call would be just fine as well or.
Okay.
I have answers to your questions in the upcoming slides. I'm gonna offer up a quick spoiler though for the folks dropping in the AI tools.
And. You should be doing your interview with more than one person. It should be 2 of you. That's the answer.
And I'll explain more why in a second. But the idea is that one person is taking notes, the other person is driving the conversation and it should be a phone call and not a video call and the reason being is that a lot of the times people get distracted.
By what they're seeing. Or worried about how they're being perceived. So you get less of the truth.
When you're actually on a video call as opposed to a voice conversation.
Alright, I'll talk to you more about this in a second, but I promise you I have slides for San Antonio.
If I don't address your questions by the end of these slides, you tell me. Alright, framing the interview.
Oh, go ahead, Liana.
For those who are solo, just really quick for those who are solo founders, we will help you be your co-pilot.
So Kate, Verona, Sophie, myself, Neil, or fellow classmates who want extra reps.
So if you are participating in program alone, that's happened before, we will make sure that you have a co-pilot.
No one should be doing these interviews by themselves.
Yep, that's exactly right.
Good question, George, about bias. So, how did not introduce bias? I think you should hopefully over time run out of friends to talk to.
And have other people. Friends do tend to want to lend a hand so you will get less of the truth from them.
But if you do this right and you adopt our techniques, even if you know them well. You get to a point where if you ask the right questions, you're getting to things that get super real and and it becomes out of the zone of them trying to do you a favor and you actually just trying to get the story right of what happened.
However, that being said, if one of you is friends with them, be the note taker and less of the driver of the conversation.
Alright, let's talk about framing the interviews. So digging deep, understanding forces and motivations that play still not the full picture.
They have to be in the right time and place in their life. So it's natural for human behavior, for us to hold back when we get asked questions.
A lot of people get kind of almost like they're withholding in a way, right? So it's a very nuanced.
To do effective interviews to extract the information you need and not every interview is gonna go well. Sometimes you'll get somebody who closes up or becomes a ston.
Even though they're willing to talk to you, it may not be, it'll be a dud.
So you'll throw out some interviews that don't quite go as well. You don't get to the right point.
And sometimes unfortunately, you'll have people who just want to give you feedback on your product. If they're your customer, for example.
And they just want to talk about what they think you should do or what they'd like something to be.
And you have to do the job of very respectfully redirecting them back to understanding the demand side of their journey and less about what's apparent to them right now about what they want you to do as opposed to what you're doing.
So even though it's more like an interrogation than the subject is aware of, it's going to feel like a casual conversation.
Like I go into it and I'm super friendly and I'm like talking to them like they're my friend and I am really just developing report and familiarity and respect and appreciation and gratitude.
And in doing so, it kind of brings the mood down. From something that's more tense.
And it makes it feel like you're just kind of having a friendly chat. So you also want to make sure that you go into these conversations with humility.
So don't assume that you can fill in the gaps and you know what they're saying and you already understand.
Go into it with ultimate curiosity. Also remember about the causality piece. Everything is caused, nothing is random.
I've said it before. I'll say it again. I'll say it more times.
Yeah, another phrase you'll hear us say a lot are trade offs. Everyone makes tradeoffs to make progress.
It's not as simple as one thing versus another. It's always going to be a multitude of competing factors that you have to weigh.
When I give you all advice about a business problem you're going to have. Any of you when we have our conversations, I'm gonna bring up trade-offs.
I'm not going to tell you definitively what to do unless it is extremely painfully obvious that you need to do it.
One example to contradict myself. Because I think all of you should have founder agreements, which is why I included it as a question in the questionnaire that you all filled out.
So that's something that I don't think there's trade offs on not having it versus our but there are right the trade off is not having a founder agreement means that If things don't work out down the road and you end up being successful and somebody ends up not spending as much time on the business.
They still get half. If you don't define that. So that's, trust me, I'm speaking from experience on those experiences.
So, Also disconnected most people don't know why they do what they do so you'll have a lot of people when you talk to them and they'll think they know what you're doing.
They'll go, okay, I see what you're saying. Let me tell you why I didn't.
And so they'll start to like volunteer like, oh, I know what I was doing. I know what my job was and like they'll tell you.
They're usually wrong. So don't don't worry so much about someone who's over confident when they're talking to you about explaining their why.
Because once you break down some of the pieces, there will be a level of understanding that they like that you'll get from them and sometimes they get impressed and they're like, wow, I've never been asked that question before, or I didn't even realize that was what was going on because I'll give you an example.
I had someone recently who was very skeptical. Who I was doing a live interview with.
I was talking about how we help our founders succeed. We're at a diner having breakfast.
And he's like, yeah, yeah, I get it. Like it's whatever. And then we start talking to him about something he purchased recently.
It was a 3D printer. And he kind of went into explaining what he got it for and why.
And I kind of got stuck. Like I was like, okay, I'm not sure what to ask now.
But then the other person who was sitting with us happened to be his wife and she goes It was your birthday around that time.
Don't you remember that? Oh, right. Oh, and then all of a sudden the conversation shifted.
And there were so many more details that emerged. From that insight that I didn't even think to ask and realize.
So just know that there could be one little tiny wedge of a question or detail that if you get right.
Opens the floodgates to a deeper truth about what was really going on in someone's behavior.
Lies, everybody lies, whether they mean it or not. Someone could say, I bought this because it's important to be healthy.
But it's not lying with malice or bad intent. It's just a story that fits.
You know, their situation or narrative at the time. So lies are a very complicated thing. We often see as a negative thing, but get past the lie.
Cause it's not malicious, but it's probably more disconnected from a deeper truth of what actually might be underlying.
Their situation. So for the interview process, Antonio, this is where we get to what you asked.
Have more than one person on the call. So one person's fully engaged, the other person's taking notes, and identifying what's missing.
So this is what's really, really cool of working with someone else on the interview because if you're not on a video.
And you and they're filling in the timeline while you're driving the interview. They might go, hey, we're still missing what the first thought was.
Can you go back in the timeline and figure out what that was. You go on mute and you clarify, hey ask this next or we're missing this.
So I think that's really important. That being said, there were some tools shared in the chat that are important because you should record and transcribe the calls if you can.
And, the way to handle this at the beginning of the call is basically to respectfully ask, we're not going to use it for any other purposes other than our research, offer them assurances that it will be kept confidential.
90% of the time. It's not 95% of the time. No issues there. But if for some reason they are hesitant, feel free to just take copious notes.
Phone is greater than video like I've already explained better engagement more honest reactions doesn't distract you with worrying about how you look how you perceive things like that really helpful.
Take real-time notes in the interview itself. My favorite thing is to map out the timeline as you go.
That is the game that I play when I'm doing jobs to be done interviews. Also, just as important as all of this, the interview last 20 to 30 min typically if you're doing it right.
Sometimes they can go longer like the mattress interview.
The debrief. Always bake in about 15 min. After your interview to do any immediate debrief.
The reason an immediate debrief is important is that that conversation that you just had is completely fresh in your mind.
It is the best time to unpack what you just heard. What did we just hear? What was the timeline?
Do we have it right? Do we need to follow up and ask a few more clarifying questions? Do we map out the jobs to be done statement?
How we are then when you map out the forces, right? What were the pushes? What were the pulls? What were the habits?
Or things that exactly what you did with Lianna just now. And there's another acronym you see here, Mala, MALA.
More about, less about. So we'll offer up that framework as a tool as well, but.
Their story was more about these things. And less about these things. So it's a contrast and factors that influence the forces of progress.
Once you complete your first interview, oh, this is the framework actually to go about completing your first interview.
So you introduce yourself. Have a little bit of a script here about how to frame it because we teach you well to ask kind of weird questions most people when they do interviews aren't used to getting asked the kinds of things that you would ask in their jobs to be done interview.
So make sure that they know is no right or wrong. Answers. Make sure that you set the context about the detailed questions you asked.
Like I'm asking about what time of day was it? What was the weather like? Who are you with?
What did you eat for breakfast? It's weird stuff. That folks are used to like not used to recalling all the time.
But by having them recall some of these indirect details. It reminds them of what was going on.
It brings them into that space and time and it unlocks more memories. These are the interrogation techniques that you know you learn.
You know, in government and whatnot. And also preparing for interruption. So to make sure we're making the most of your time.
There are times when I might interrupt you for clarifications. And I apologize in advance. So just be really respectful about it.
But sometimes they'll go off on a tangent. They'll talk for too long or they'll be.
You know, misdirected from what's important that you're trying to learn and you have 20 min or 30 min.
So keep them on task and on mission and move on from things that are becoming irrelevant. And then as you do the interview, focus on energy.
So start like J. Lo already asked, moment of purchase and working backwards from there. And then drilling deeper into moments that are high energy.
So once someone demonstrates a high level of pain, either you see or hear an emotional reaction where they emphasize words or they have like strong language or just like a visceral reaction or something.
Or it's very emotional. Take into wherever the energy is, unpack it more, slow down time, zoom in and make sure you're unpacking that scene in that situation.
Context creates meaning, contrast, create value. Words to live by. So a few other contrasting examples that we took as excerpts from the book.
So, why do it virtually versus why do it virtually? Why not just get into your car and drive to the doctor?
So when you offer up the why not that gives them something to react to. But if you ask a more open-ended version of the question, they might struggle to actually give you a clear answer.
So, more context. It installed fast versus it installed fast in just under 2 min. The last program took 5 min to install.
Context. More visceral detail. That's what we're looking for. Don't accept fast.
What do you mean by fast? What is fast to you? Is it 1 min, 5 min, 30 min?
Everyone defines fast. Different. So make sure that you understand what that means because when you do the post analysis of the interview, the debrief.
When you have conversations with your team about what you heard. Statements like what's on the right here become a debate.
And then you end up having to go back and call them anyway to clarify what they meant.
Few more examples. So, I bought this new laptop and it's really good.
Okay, cool, that's fine. High energy. I bought this new laptop and it's really good.
Or I bought this laptop and it's good. Like the emotion that you hear once someone saying certain things versus other things that those are hints to do to dig deeper.
A few more. Why were you at the doctor versus? Asking you more. I've got a personal question.
If you don't answer, you don't have to. But why were you at the doctor?
So you notice in the match, Bob is really good at getting you to give him more information about what you're dealing with, even though it becomes very personal.
He's almost too good. I'll give you a quick example. So I was in the Detroit doing a Jobs to be done workshop with Bob years ago.
And we were interviewing someone who had purchased storage. Like home storage. Units from Creighton Barrel.
And I'll spare the details. But I'll tell you a story some of the time if you're curious long story short what we learned from these this interview.
Is that the person we were talking to was having a lot of marital issues. The home storage was about having their kids near them.
In like by the kitchen. Cause they wanted to be closer to their kids. And their partner wanted the storage to be in the basement.
Cause the kids, they wanted the kids to be away. From them after a long day of work. So we're sitting there having this conversation doing this interview and it's becoming more and more obvious that there's a deeper problem at play.
And it was like, okay, at some point you got to call it. If you go too deep into someone's situation and it becomes beyond your pay grade and a little too personal you got to know like all right like with great power comes great responsibility.
So I think in the encore yesterday after our session ended, a few people stuck around and I made this point because they asked about using jobs in other contexts.
Can you use jobs to be done to understand investors? And the making investment decisions in you. The answer is yes.
Jobs is life in my opinion. So for those of you in your lives, there's probably situations with your friends, with your spouse, with other people that are important to you, where you can apply the same framework.
Not just in a business context. I would just urge caution. Because if you go to deep. People get weirded out with what you ask and what you understand about what's going on.
So have phone with it, but at the same time, be careful.
Alright. I'm gonna jump through a few other tips. Be really, really careful about using hypotheticals and generalizations.
Lot of people go, would you pay this or what would you have done in this situation? When you ask people what they would have done.
It's not getting at the point of this exercise and what we're trying to teach you. Those hypotheticals, I personally just struggle in my life with hypotheticals in general.
Like I I don't have a really good time imagining what I would do as opposed to evaluating what has been done.
Or other indicators of that behavior. Also sometimes you have an effusive customer that makes you feel really good and it's an ego trip.
When they're praising you or your product. You can respond with kindness, but don't get distracted from what matters, which is you getting back to understanding their journey and their story.
But it does feel good every now and then when you get that validation. Also, try not to make assumptions.
So if you catch yourself thinking that makes perfect sense. Ask more questions. Don't settle with, I know what you're trying to say.
Let's move on. Make sure you understand their words. So another way to do this, we refer to as playing dumb.
So even if you know what they mean by something, ask them to explain it. Because they might explain it in a way differently than what you have as an understanding in your head.
Also, you'll notice sometimes people will very quickly agree. With like very like concise or short responses.
Make sure you have the story right and reflect it back to them and get something wrong. So like try to offer up an incorrect detail about what you heard.
And then they can correct you and then they'll dig in more. So there's really like, this is like really crafty stuff like the dark arts that I've learned from, Bob and others and interview techniques.
Also stay away from like again, the ego trip, the product related questions. Most of y'all have done interviews where you ask for user feedback.
Where you're trying to go, what do you think of this feature or how's this going or that's not what this is.
There is a context where that's relevant, but we're just telling you that for jobs to be done framework standpoint, that is not what we're teaching.
So do user interviews as you see fit to get feedback on features and products and how they work in QA stuff.
But just know that that ain't what this is. As you do more, you start to identify.
Clusters and patterns across the interviews. Don't just keep them in your head with your intuition, write them down, document them.
We've already, you had to do a lot of that. And then once you refine those clusters and you turn them into a few jobs to be done statements, which we've offered up the formula for.
That's when you can start to actually work through and get closer to what we call a source of truth.
For the company. Christie.
This is a different, stem to this, but, will we. Learn how to interview customers that have abandoned that product or left that product and get.
Firing interviews. Yes.
If fire interviews, yes.
Yeah, hiring and firing, right? So you hire a job to hire people to do jobs and then you fire.
People who don't do the job or not doing the job well enough or the job is done and you don't need them.
Right? So that is an equally valid and important thing to analyze around. So I want to talk to people who've recently, you know, sold something like sold their car or sold their home or you know, what are you saying no to and why are you getting rid of this?
As a solution. And especially you when you have churn, you know, any users on your platform or customers on your platform.
It's harder to get them to do that, but you can pay them.
To talk to you if there's a struggling moment beyond that. Matthew?
Yes, you said Neil, so in the B 2 B context like businesses don't buy products but people do.
And my question is, How do you balance the questions that are geared towards the individual as a user or decision maker versus questions given towards what the corporation or the organization wants to do in the context of the
When you say the corporation organization is just a it's a composition of people.
Yeah, but I'm thinking, that's, you know, you still, especially for more mature, for metro organisation you have.
Maybe.
Policies you have you know, budgets, you have more less emotional components maybe in a in a decision making process and thinking that the interview should at least have some questions towards understanding how the organization behaves.
In addition or as opposed to how the individual we talk to. Would behave.
The behavior of the organization is the behavior of the collection of individuals in the organization. So actually, Matthew, it goes right back to understanding the person that you're talking to.
At the end of the day, truly. And that is the point of that statement. Which is like if you try to think of it as like some sort of non-human entity.
Might be selling yourself short from understanding what's really going on at the decision-making level across each of the humans who are involved in the decision-making process.
So I'm actually trying to teach you to not think that way. At least for the purposes of gathering the information that we can help you work with here.
Okay.
That isn't to say to throw out the needs of the organization at large or the systems in place, the cultural expectations, the parameters that each individual is facing within their respective department.
But understand the individuals impetus because it may be completely disconnected from whatever it might be said online or for wherever the policy is.
There's what the policy is and what the expectations are. And then there's what the human wants to actually do.
And what's driving them to do that job.
Those could be very different things. So when someone speaking on behalf of the company, that's a totally different ballgame than what we want to know, which is.
Them speaking on behalf of themselves and their role at the company and what they're trying to make progress on for them.
I'm really grateful that you asked that question. Cause it offers me a way to like really elaborate on the B twob front that it's still a human interest story that you're getting into.
Yeah, thank you for explaining that. Thanks.
Yeah. Alright, I'm gonna place through a few things here. As a company, the problems you're solved for the customer aren't gonna change that much.
But, once you understand that, it becomes a part of your core DNA. So now your job is to iterate to solve the problem better.
As you go. That's how you grow into a scaling organization. So.
As you bring on team members. They're not gonna understand JTBD. But we're gonna teach you all an exercise so that anybody you bring on post tech stars will understand your jobs and you'll have something to explain that so they're all in the same page with you.
And then that understanding becomes ingrained in your company culture. Which can be a very, very powerful tool to have everyone mission aligned.
So when it comes to solving for the job. You're going to evaluate. You know, existing products, assumptions and features.
You're going to do opportunity mapping. So based on the inside to gather you understand what the high level opportunities are.
There may be a really, really frothy or salient anxiety that you identify in the forces diagram.
That is unaddressed in the product or push that was never considered that ends up coming to fruition and you all decide to make your strategy about addressing that specific thing.
And then another really helpful tool is what we call an opportunity solution tree where you kind of reverse engineer from the desired outcome.
Towards what the inputs would be on the solution front to actually reset desired outcome. By your consumer.
And then one of the things that you need to be caution about is You'll think of an idea.
And then you fall in love with that idea and it becomes an anchor in your head that you become committed to.
When there's so many other ways to solve the problem. As well. So one job here is to get committed to the problem.
And less committed to the solution. Because once people become so dependent on their way of solving the problem. You become blindsided to all the other alternatives that could exist to help your users actually be successful.
Kevin.
Yeah, I just wanted to know at what point like if you're going through this process at such an in-depth level and you find something that you address that wasn't addressed in your product before and then you need to make that pivot and make that shift.
How do you sort of have the balance where you're not driving yourself crazy by continuously making pivots and then having to put breaks on sales because you're trying to up your game with your product better because you're addressing those needs.
Yeah, you need to set parameters around your, sprints. So you shouldn't drink from the fire hose and take on everything, which is why we teach jobs in the context of a very particular learning question and prompt.
Was in the context of. Of this.
So within like, let's just say a 6 week cycle. You're making bets about what you thinking can get done, right?
So you do the jobs to be done work, you have the insights. You take a week and you have a conversation or a debate about what makes sense.
Then you make a strategic bet about if we make this product change if we go with this sales initiative. Here's what we think will happen.
But it's within enough of a time frame that even if you're wrong. You can try another experiment next if it doesn't work.
But you need to set parameters. Around that and not take on too much. And, boil the ocean, as they say.
Thank you.
Yeah. Alright, I'm gonna jump through some of the text. We'll share this later.
But one great example and exercise for y'all to do to kind of bring this to a close and be careful I might do this tomorrow when we wrap this up.
So you better watch out, but what I love to do is I have people pull up. Their landing pages.
On their of their websites, your homepage. So if I go to the homepage of your website.
Are you bragging about how awesome you are? Are you talking about? The desired outcome and the needs and the benefits.
To the individual that you're trying to sell to.
Alright, so I'm giving you that test because some of you might need to change your landing pages in the next day because we're gonna pull them up.
And we're gonna look at it and we're gonna talk about that. Also your one minor.
This will help you with that. It'll help you like very concisely talk about what you're doing going forward.
So it influences like what you write about your business, how you talk, the language and voice of your business becomes less of your assumptions about what is important and more about what you heard in those interviews.
So the language shifts as well. That's what you get blessed with when you do these interviews properly.
And then the channels. That you reach people through become more, salient. And they reveal themselves differently now that you talk to people who found progress in a variety of ways you know where to get them now.
When you do that work to figure out who to interview in the first place. So then it becomes a list of action items that create progress for your company and your customer.
So, tomorrow we'll talk more about job stories. I have 2 very specific stories and examples to show you of how jobs to be done.
Made an impact on a few products and businesses. And then we'll do some live interviews to demonstrate the technique and some of the tactics and we'll do some debriefing together.
So that's what you'd expect tomorrow. Liliana, tell me if I did my job here.
Properly. Okay.
Oh yeah, I think we got there exactly what we wanted to. We'll stay on to answer questions, Calvin, but we can go ahead and distance everybody because we love to end on time.
So Neil and I will stay back but. We can't wait to keep going tomorrow and you'll see a live interview which will kind of make everything click.
So thanks everybody